So we're pretty close to being done with the flappy bird game.
The two main things that are missing are any kind of scoring and the facility to end the game when the
user dies and then started off again.
So we're going to sort out scoring in this video and then we'll do the kind of game management part
in the next final video.
So scoring is reasonably straightforward and in fact I'm going to set that as a challenge.
So can you figure out a way to have a general scoring system so that when the bird goes through the
gap obviously without actually colliding with the cheeps they get an extra point.
So see if you can find a way to do that.
Best of luck.
All right now with this one I'm definitely not saying that the way I'm going to do it is the best way.
And if you go away that works then that's that's perfectly great.
But what I'm going to do is actually look at the x coordinate of these troops and I'm going to see what
the x coordinate of the Chib is.
And then when the tube gets to there if the user hasn't died yet then they're going to get an extra
point.
So the way I'm going to deal with that is by having a score variable and this will be an integer score
which is initially 0.
And then
while we're checking the x coordinate of the tubes I'm going to check to see if any of them are have
the left coordinate at the center of the screen.
Now I'm not going to check for exactly equal to the center of the screen because remember we're moving
these four pixels at a time.
So it might not get that.
So I have to check to see if it's less than the center of the screen.
So let's see how we're going to do that.
OK.
So recently straightforwardly we can look at Cube X to get the x coordinate of the left hand side of
the particular cheap.
And then we want to check whether that's less than the center of the screen.
So that is GDX graphics dark get with
so simply we could say score plus plus.
Now of course that in itself is not going to work very well because that score is going to get very
high very quickly because every time this runs if a cube is on the left hand side of the screen it's
going to add to the score.
So as always there's a number of ways round this but what I'm going to do is keep track of which Choop
is how active score.
So the next one that we're expecting to come in essentially.
So let's have an I'll call it scoring cube.
And initially the first scoring Chib is going to be the zeroth tube.
So instead of checking all the cheeps we only check for the next one the scoring one.
And now we don't need to put it in the loop either.
We only need to check for one say scoring cheap.
So it's also more efficient because we're not doing it four times so we'll add 1 to the score.
If that happens and then we also add 1 to scoring cheap.
If it's less than 4 so if scoring cheap is less than four
scoring cheap plus plus helps
scoring cheap goes back to zero.
So we just looping round them round.
So we'll start with the scoring Chib of 0 so we'll check for that one and then that want to get there
first and then as soon as it does start looking for the score and cheap of one.
So that will mean that the score is only incremented by 1 each time.
And actually instead of four Let's change that to number of chips.
So it's a bit more flexible.
OK.
So let's just log the score each time
and then score and we'll need to convert that to a string and a couple of quick fixes in this code.
This should be get over to you because we want the scoring cube to be to the left of the middle of the
screen.
And also we want scoring to be less than the number of chips minus one because scoring cheap is going
to go to 0 1 2 3 0 1 2 3 etc..
We don't want it to be able to ever get to 4 because we don't have a fourth to visit where we have 0
1 2 and 3 Chib great.
So now we should find that the score is low but each time we get past one of the groups.
So there was a test from before is looking promising.
So let's give it a try.
Say there's a score of 1 perfect score of two etc..
3 billion.
So that's all it can get.
So in this video I'm also going to show you how we can display the score on the screen and then we'll
finally look at the game over screen in the final video.
So that's pretty straightforward.
In GDX we'll do it down with the rest of our rendering.
And we want the score to be in front of everything else.
So I'm going to pop it here now to write the text with the GDX we need to create a font.
Now I'm just going to use the default font.
But we do need to set that up.
So we'll do that here.
So all right bitmap font
and quality font regather and along with everything else we'll set up here.
So Funt is a new bitmap font and I'm just going to use the default font and as I said whoops equals
and then I'm going to set two characteristics of this Funt I'm going to set the color and it's just
going to be white.
It's a very simple colored and white.
And then I'm going to set the size or scale.
And we do that actually in Funt top get data set scale.
And I found a scale of 10 to work pretty well.
OK.
Then we just get down to Bachche drawing and I'm going to draw it.
There's going to be at the bottom left of the screen.
So we take our font and we draw.
And you can see that we start off by stating the batch and then the string that we want to draw and
then the x and y position so the batch of course is just the same batch that we're using for everything
else.
And then we want to take that string value of school as the actual text that's going to go on the screen.
And then I'm going to go for 100 100 so that should give me something at the bottom left of the screen.
So simple is that we've created the bitmap font up here with specified the size and color just there.
And then we've actually drawn it down in the rendah method.
So let's take a look and there we go you can see our number is there but it's lower than we expected
and I think what's actually going on there is that the y coordinate that we give here is actually the
top left of the
text label that we're using.
So I'm just going to increase that to 200 to give that a better look rather than having it on the bottom
of the screen.
There we go.
So I like that position.
We can now play the game and enjoy it while it lasts because now we can play as long as we like.
And whatever happens we won't die.
So that's what we're going to change in the final video.
We're going to enable the collision detection to actually detect a collision in that it will end the
game.
When the head hits one of the cheaps and obviously give the use of the opportunity to play again.
I'll see you then.